README.md, before:

# grunt-replace [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/outaTiME/grunt-replace.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/outaTiME/grunt-replace)

> Replace text patterns with a given replacement.



## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.0`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-replace --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-replace');
```

*This plugin was designed to work with Grunt 0.4.x. If you're still using grunt v0.3.x it's strongly recommended that [you upgrade](http://gruntjs.com/upgrading-from-0.3-to-0.4), but in case you can't please use [v0.3.2](https://github.com/outaTiME/grunt-replace/tree/grunt-0.3-stable).*



## Replace task
_Run this task with the `grunt replace` command._

Task targets, files and options may be specified according to the grunt [Configuring tasks](http://gruntjs.com/configuring-tasks) guide.
### Options

#### patterns
Type: `Array`

Define patterns that will be used to replace the contents of source files.

The matches will be sorted to prevent replacement issues like `head` / `header` (typo regexps will be resolved at last).

#### patterns.match
Type: `String|RegExp`

Indicates the matching expression.

If matching type is `String` and `expression` attribute is `false` we use a simple variable lookup mechanism `@@string` (in any other case we use the default regexp replace logic):

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: 'foo',
      replacement: 'bar', // replaces "@@foo" to "bar"
      expression: false   // simple variable lookup
    }
  ]
}
```

Templated regexps are allowed, `match` attribure must be quoted and `expression` attribute should be in `true`:

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: '/<%= grunt.template.date(847602000000, "yyyy") %>/g',
      replacement: '2014', // replaces "1996" to "2014"
      expression: true     // must be forced for templated regexp
    }
  ]
}
```

#### patterns.replacement
Type: `String|Function|Object`

Indicates the replacement for match, for more information about replacement checkout [String.replace](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace).

You can specify a function as replacement. In this case, the function will be invoked after the match has been performed. The function's result (return value) will be used as the replacement string.

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: /foo/g,
      replacement: function () {
        return 'bar'; // replaces "foo" to "bar"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Also supports object as replacement (we create string representation of object using [JSON.stringify](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify)):

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: /foo/g,
      replacement: [1, 2, 3] // replaces "foo" with string representation of "array" object
    }
  ]
}
```

#### patterns.json
Type: `Object`

If an attribute `json` found in pattern definition we flatten the object using `dotted` concatenation and each key–value pair will be used for the replacement (simple variable lookup mechanism and no regexp support).

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      json: {
        "key": "value" // replaces "@@key" to "value"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Also supports nested objects and templating:

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      json: {
        "key": "value",   // replaces "@@key" to "value"
        "inner": {        // replaces "@@inner" with string representation of "inner" object
          "key": "value"  // replaces "@@inner.key" to "value"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Alternatively, you can specify a external file:

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      json: grunt.file.readJSON('config.json')
    }
  ]
}
```

#### patterns.expression
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `false`

Indicates the type of matching (for templated regexp match we need to force in `true`).

If detects regexp instance in `match` attribute we assume to works with expression matcher (in any other case should be forced).

#### variables
Type: `Object`

This is the old way to define patterns using plain object (simple variable lookup mechanism and no regexp support), you can still using but for more control you should use the new `patterns` way.

```javascript
options: {
  variables: {
    'key': 'value' // replaces "@@key" to "value"
  }
}
```

#### prefix
Type: `String`
Default: `@@`

The prefix added to `patterns.match` for easy matching and replace error prevention.

> This only applies for simple variable lookup mechanism.

#### usePrefix
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `true`

If set to `false`, we match the string in `patterns.match` without `prefix` concatenation. It was useful when you want to look up an simple string.

> This only applies for simple variable lookup mechanism.

#### preservePrefix
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `false`

If set to `true`, we preserve the `prefix` in target.

> This only applies for simple variable lookup mechanism and `patterns.replacement` is an string.

#### force
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `false`

Force the copy of files even when those files don't have any match found for replacement.

#### noProcess
Type: `String`

This option is an advanced way to control which file contents are processed.

> `processContentExclude` has been renamed to `noProcess` and the option name will be removed in the future.

#### encoding
Type: `String`
Default: `grunt.file.defaultEncoding`

The file encoding to copy files with.

#### mode
Type: `Boolean` or `Number`
Default: `false`

Whether to copy or set the existing file permissions. Set to `true` to copy the existing file permissions. Or set to the mode, i.e.: `0644`, that copied files will be set to.

### Usage Examples

#### Short

File `build/manifest.appcache`:

```
CACHE MANIFEST
# @@timestamp

CACHE:

favicon.ico
index.html

NETWORK:
*
```

Gruntfile, define pattern (for timestamp) and the source files for lookup:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'timestamp',
          replacement: '<%= grunt.template.today() %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/manifest.appcache'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Multiple matching

File `build/manifest.appcache`:

```
CACHE MANIFEST
# @@timestamp

CACHE:

favicon.ico
index.html

NETWORK:
*
```


File `build/humans.txt`:

```
              __     _
   _    _/__  /./|,//_`
  /_//_// /_|///  //_, outaTiME v.@@version

/* TEAM */
  Web Developer / Graphic Designer: Ariel Oscar Falduto
  Site: http://www.outa.im
  Twitter: @outa7iME
  Contact: afalduto at gmail dot com
  From: Buenos Aires, Argentina

/* SITE */
  Last update: @@timestamp
  Standards: HTML5, CSS3, robotstxt.org, humanstxt.org
  Components: H5BP, Modernizr, jQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, LESS, Jade, Grunt
  Software: Sublime Text 2, Photoshop, LiveReload

```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'version',
          replacement: '<%= pkg.version %>'
        },
        {
          match: 'timestamp',
          replacement: '<%= grunt.template.today() %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/manifest.appcache', 'build/humans.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Cache busting

File `app/assets/index.html`:

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/style.css?rel=@@timestamp">
  <script src="/js/app.js?rel=@@timestamp"></script>
</head>
```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'timestamp',
          replacement: '<%= new Date().getTime() %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {src: ['app/assets/index.html'], dest: 'build/index.html'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Include file

File `build/index.html`:

```html
<body>
  @@include
</body>
```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'include',
          replacement: '<%= grunt.file.read("includes/content.html") %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/index.html'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Regular expression

File `build/username.txt`:

```
John Smith
```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: /(\w+)\s(\w+)/,
          replacement: '$2, $1', // replaces "John Smith" to "Smith, John"
          expression: true
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/username.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Lookup for `foo` instead of `@@foo`

The `String` matching type or `expression` in `false` generates a simple variable lookup mechanism `@@string`, to skip this mode use one of the below rules ... make your choice:

Gruntfile:

```js

// option 1 (explicitly using an regexp)

replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: /foo/g,
          replacement: 'bar'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/foo.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}

// option 2 (easy way)

replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'foo',
          replacement: 'bar'
        }
      ],
      usePrefix: false
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/foo.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}

// option 3 (old way)

replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'foo',
          replacement: 'bar'
        }
      ],
      prefix: '' // remove prefix
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/foo.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}

```

## Release History

 * 2014-02-06   v0.6.1   Rename excludePrefix to preservePrefix (more readable) and adds usePrefix flag. Support the noProcess option like [grunt-contrib-copy](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-copy).
 * 2014-02-05   v0.6.0   Object replacement allowed. New excludePrefix flag (thanks [@shinnn](https://github.com/shinnn)). Encoding / Mode options added.
 * 2013-09-18   v0.5.1   New pattern matching for JSON object.
 * 2013-09-17   v0.5.0   Regular expression matching now supported and notation has been updated but is backward compatible.
 * 2013-05-03   v0.4.4   Fix escape $ before performing regexp replace (thanks [@warpech](https://github.com/warpech)).
 * 2013-04-14   v0.4.3   Detect path destinations correctly on Windows.
 * 2013-04-02   v0.4.2   Add peerDependencies and update description.
 * 2013-04-02   v0.4.1   Add trace when force flag.
 * 2013-02-28   v0.4.0   First official release for Grunt 0.4.0.
 * 2012-11-20   v0.3.2   New examples added.
 * 2012-09-25   v0.3.1   Rename grunt-contrib-lib dep to grunt-lib-contrib, add force flag.
 * 2012-09-25   v0.3.0   General cleanup and consolidation. Global options depreciated.

---

Task submitted by [Ariel Falduto](http://outa.im/)

Commit message:

New context match for replacements in process phase. Add delimiter option for object as replacement. Dependencies updated.

README.md, after:

# grunt-replace [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/outaTiME/grunt-replace.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/outaTiME/grunt-replace)

> Replace text patterns with a given replacement.



## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.0`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-replace --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-replace');
```

*This plugin was designed to work with Grunt 0.4.x. If you're still using grunt v0.3.x it's strongly recommended that [you upgrade](http://gruntjs.com/upgrading-from-0.3-to-0.4), but in case you can't please use [v0.3.2](https://github.com/outaTiME/grunt-replace/tree/grunt-0.3-stable).*



## Replace task
_Run this task with the `grunt replace` command._

Task targets, files and options may be specified according to the grunt [Configuring tasks](http://gruntjs.com/configuring-tasks) guide.
### Options

#### patterns
Type: `Array`

Define patterns that will be used to replace the contents of source files.

The matches will be sorted to prevent replacement issues like `head` / `header` (typo regexps will be resolved at last).

#### patterns.match
Type: `String|RegExp`

Indicates the matching expression.

If matching type is `String` and `expression` attribute is `false` we use a simple variable lookup mechanism `@@string` (in any other case we use the default regexp replace logic):

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: 'foo',
      replacement: 'bar', // replaces "@@foo" to "bar"
      expression: false   // simple variable lookup
    }
  ]
}
```

Templated regexps are allowed, `match` attribure must be quoted and `expression` attribute should be in `true`:

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: '/<%= grunt.template.date(847602000000, "yyyy") %>/g',
      replacement: '2014', // replaces "1996" to "2014"
      expression: true     // must be forced for templated regexp
    }
  ]
}
```

#### patterns.replacement
Type: `String|Function|Object`

Indicates the replacement for match, for more information about replacement checkout [String.replace](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace).

You can specify a function as replacement. In this case, the function will be invoked after the match has been performed. The function's result (return value) will be used as the replacement string.

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: /foo/g,
      replacement: function () {
        return 'bar'; // replaces "foo" to "bar"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Also supports object as replacement (we create string representation of object using [JSON.stringify](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify)):

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      match: /foo/g,
      replacement: [1, 2, 3] // replaces "foo" with string representation of "array" object
    }
  ]
}
```

#### patterns.json
Type: `Object`

If an attribute `json` found in pattern definition we flatten the object using `delimiter` concatenation and each key–value pair will be used for the replacement (simple variable lookup mechanism and no regexp support).

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      json: {
        "key": "value" // replaces "@@key" to "value"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Also supports nested objects and templating:

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      json: {
        "key": "value",   // replaces "@@key" to "value"
        "inner": {        // replaces "@@inner" with string representation of "inner" object
          "key": "value"  // replaces "@@inner.key" to "value"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Alternatively, you can specify a external file:

```javascript
options: {
  patterns: [
    {
      json: grunt.file.readJSON('config.json')
    }
  ]
}
```

#### patterns.expression
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `false`

Indicates the type of matching (for templated regexp match we need to force in `true`).

If detects regexp instance in `match` attribute we assume to works with expression matcher (in any other case should be forced).

#### variables
Type: `Object`

This is the old way to define patterns using plain object (simple variable lookup mechanism and no regexp support), you can still using but for more control you should use the new `patterns` way.

```javascript
options: {
  variables: {
    'key': 'value' // replaces "@@key" to "value"
  }
}
```

#### prefix
Type: `String`
Default: `@@`

The prefix added to `patterns.match` for easy matching and replace error prevention.

> This only applies for simple variable lookup mechanism.

#### usePrefix
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `true`

If set to `false`, we match the string in `patterns.match` without `prefix` concatenation. It was useful when you want to look up an simple string.

> This only applies for simple variable lookup mechanism.

#### preservePrefix
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `false`

If set to `true`, we preserve the `prefix` in target.

> This only applies for simple variable lookup mechanism and `patterns.replacement` is an string.

#### force
Type: `Boolean`
Default: `false`

Force the copy of files even when those files don't have any match found for replacement.

#### noProcess
Type: `String`

This option is an advanced way to control which file contents are processed.

> `processContentExclude` has been renamed to `noProcess` and the option name will be removed in the future.

#### encoding
Type: `String`
Default: `grunt.file.defaultEncoding`

The file encoding to copy files with.

#### mode
Type: `Boolean` or `Number`
Default: `false`

Whether to copy or set the existing file permissions. Set to `true` to copy the existing file permissions. Or set to the mode, i.e.: `0644`, that copied files will be set to.

#### delimiter
Type: `String`
Default: `.`

The delimiter used to flatten when using object as replacement.

### Usage Examples

#### Short

File `build/manifest.appcache`:

```
CACHE MANIFEST
# @@timestamp

CACHE:

favicon.ico
index.html

NETWORK:
*
```

Gruntfile, define pattern (for timestamp) and the source files for lookup:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'timestamp',
          replacement: '<%= grunt.template.today() %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/manifest.appcache'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Multiple matching

File `build/manifest.appcache`:

```
CACHE MANIFEST
# @@timestamp

CACHE:

favicon.ico
index.html

NETWORK:
*
```


File `build/humans.txt`:

```
              __     _
   _    _/__  /./|,//_`
  /_//_// /_|///  //_, outaTiME v.@@version

/* TEAM */
  Web Developer / Graphic Designer: Ariel Oscar Falduto
  Site: http://www.outa.im
  Twitter: @outa7iME
  Contact: afalduto at gmail dot com
  From: Buenos Aires, Argentina

/* SITE */
  Last update: @@timestamp
  Standards: HTML5, CSS3, robotstxt.org, humanstxt.org
  Components: H5BP, Modernizr, jQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, LESS, Jade, Grunt
  Software: Sublime Text 2, Photoshop, LiveReload

```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'version',
          replacement: '<%= pkg.version %>'
        },
        {
          match: 'timestamp',
          replacement: '<%= grunt.template.today() %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/manifest.appcache', 'build/humans.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Cache busting

File `app/assets/index.html`:

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/style.css?rel=@@timestamp">
  <script src="/js/app.js?rel=@@timestamp"></script>
</head>
```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'timestamp',
          replacement: '<%= new Date().getTime() %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {src: ['app/assets/index.html'], dest: 'build/index.html'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Include file

File `build/index.html`:

```html
<body>
  @@include
</body>
```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'include',
          replacement: '<%= grunt.file.read("includes/content.html") %>'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/index.html'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Regular expression

File `build/username.txt`:

```
John Smith
```

Gruntfile:

```js
replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: /(\w+)\s(\w+)/,
          replacement: '$2, $1', // replaces "John Smith" to "Smith, John"
          expression: true
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/username.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Lookup for `foo` instead of `@@foo`

The `String` matching type or `expression` in `false` generates a simple variable lookup mechanism `@@string`, to skip this mode use one of the below rules ... make your choice:

Gruntfile:

```js

// option 1 (explicitly using an regexp)

replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: /foo/g,
          replacement: 'bar'
        }
      ]
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/foo.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}

// option 2 (easy way)

replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'foo',
          replacement: 'bar'
        }
      ],
      usePrefix: false
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/foo.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}

// option 3 (old way)

replace: {
  dist: {
    options: {
      patterns: [
        {
          match: 'foo',
          replacement: 'bar'
        }
      ],
      prefix: '' // remove prefix
    },
    files: [
      {expand: true, flatten: true, src: ['build/foo.txt'], dest: 'public/'}
    ]
  }
}

```

## Release History

 * 2014-02-14   v0.6.2   New context match for replacements in process phase. Add delimiter option for object as replacement. Dependencies updated.
 * 2014-02-06   v0.6.1   Rename excludePrefix to preservePrefix (more readable) and adds usePrefix flag. Support the noProcess option like [grunt-contrib-copy](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-copy).
 * 2014-02-05   v0.6.0   Object replacement allowed. New excludePrefix flag (thanks [@shinnn](https://github.com/shinnn)). Encoding / Mode options added.
 * 2013-09-18   v0.5.1   New pattern matching for JSON object.
 * 2013-09-17   v0.5.0   Regular expression matching now supported and notation has been updated but is backward compatible.
 * 2013-05-03   v0.4.4   Fix escape $ before performing regexp replace (thanks [@warpech](https://github.com/warpech)).
 * 2013-04-14   v0.4.3   Detect path destinations correctly on Windows.
 * 2013-04-02   v0.4.2   Add peerDependencies and update description.
 * 2013-04-02   v0.4.1   Add trace when force flag.
 * 2013-02-28   v0.4.0   First official release for Grunt 0.4.0.
 * 2012-11-20   v0.3.2   New examples added.
 * 2012-09-25   v0.3.1   Rename grunt-contrib-lib dep to grunt-lib-contrib, add force flag.
 * 2012-09-25   v0.3.0   General cleanup and consolidation. Global options depreciated.

---

Task submitted by [Ariel Falduto](http://outa.im/)
